{'row': {'comments': {'url': 'http://wyborcza.pl/7,75399,24503870,klincz-w-wenezueli-rosja-nie-chce-rezolucji-rady-bezpieczenstwa.html', 'division': 'Świat', 'pub_date': '28 lutego 2019 | 16:13', 'author': 'Maciej Stasiński', 'title': 'Klincz w Wenezueli. Rosja nie chce rezolucji Rady Bezpieczeństwa ONZ wzywającej do przyspieszonych wyborów', 'highlight': 'Chociaż opozycyjny prezydent Juan Guaidó ma poparcie obywateli i uznanie 50 krajów świata, to armia i siły bezpieczeństwa wciąż stoją za Nicolasem Maduro. A międzynarodowy nacisk na ustąpienie reżimu i demokratyzację kraju blokują Rosja i Chiny.', 'content': 'Juan Guaidó poleciał w czwartek z Kolumbii do Brazylii na spotkanie z jej nowym prezydentem Jairem Bolsonaro. Ale o poparcie Brazylii i innych głównych krajów Ameryki Łacińskiej opozycyjny prezydent Wenezueli nie musi zabiegać. Uznaje go już 50 krajów świata, w tym Europa, USA, Kanada i większość krajów Ameryki Łacińskiej. Już w Bogocie w poniedziałek wsparło go 13 krajów kontynentu, a także Kanada i USA, które żądają ustąpienia Nicolasa Maduro i rozpisania nowych wyborów prezydenckich.Tzw. grupa z Limy zapowiedziała nawet wniosek do Międzynarodowego Trybunału Karnego o ściganie wenezuelskiego reżimu za strzelanie do ludności cywilnej i blokowanie pomocy humanitarnej.Guaidó wymknął się z Wenezueli w ubiegłą sobotę w nadziei, że uda mu się wymusić wjazd transportów pomocy humanitarnej przez przejścia lądowe z Kolumbią i Brazylią i zyskać w kraju jeszcze większą popularność. Jednak reżim w Caracas żadnej pomocy humanitarnej dla głodującej ludności nie chce. Uważa, że to zasłona dymna dla inwazji zbrojnej USA. Przejścia graniczne zostały obstawione wojskiem i zamknięte. Do ludzi z rejonów nadgranicznych, którzy próbowali żądać przepuszczenia konwojów, zaczęto strzelać. W sobotę zginęło kilkanaście osób, a kilka ciężarówek z żywnością i lekarstwami spłonęło.', 'media_src': 'https://bi.im-g.pl/im/85/5e/17/z24503941V,Oficer-Boliwarianskiej-Gwardii-Narodowej-strzela-p.jpg', 'media_desc': 'Oficer Boliwariańskiej Gwardii Narodowej strzela podczas starć w Urenie (Wenezuela), 23 lutego 2019.', 'media_type': 'image', 'comments': [{'main_comment': {'id': '101356568', 'author': 'wyatearp', 'date': '28.02.2019, 15:50', 'body': 'Chciejstwo i fejk, albo na odwrót.', 'upvotes': '1', 'downvotes': '6', 'suspicious': False}, 'sub_comments': [{'id': '101356731', 'author': 'altakyr', 'date': '28.02.2019, 16:41', 'reply_to': 'wyatearp', 'body': '25 października 1989 Stanisław Remuszko zaapelował na łamach „Gazety Wyborczej” o zmianę czołówki Dziennika Telewizyjnego (bo mu się źle kojarzyła). Dwa dni później Stanisław Tym odpowiedział mu na tych samych łamach poematem, który zasługuje na ocalenie od zapomnienia:', 'upvotes': '3', 'downvotes': '0', 'suspicious': False}]}, {'main_comment': {'id': '101357440', 'author': 'yogi&ranger', 'date': '28.02.2019, 20:47', 'body': 'skonczy jak Ceausescu... a to ze przy okazji wojsko rozwali paru skorumpowanych generalow, paru kacapskich najemnikow i paru agentow kubanskiej bezpieki to tez swiatu na zle nie wyjdzie....', 'upvotes': '5', 'downvotes': '1', 'suspicious': False}, 'sub_comments': [{'id': '101357689', 'author': 'yogi&ranger', 'date': '28.02.2019, 22:41', 'reply_to': 'alakyr1 cos kiepsko wiedza bo popieraja Guido a nie Maduro... spojrz na punkty 2 - NCA jest niekonstytucyjnym tworem powolanym przez Maduro, punkt NA jesl legalnie wybranym parlamentem ktorego przewodniczacym jest Guido (i legalnosci tych wyborow nikt nie kwestionowal), punkt 4, punkty 6 to 9... Declaration of Lima Joint Declaration 007 - 17 The Foreign Ministers and Representatives of Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay and Peru, meeting in the city of Lima, on 8 August 2017, to address the critical situation in Venezuela and explore ways to contribute to the restoration of democracy in that country through a peaceful and negotiated solution; Encouraged by the spirit of solidarity that characterizes the region and the conviction that negotiation, with full respect for the norms of international law and the principle of nonintervention, does not violate human rights and democracy, and is the only tool that ensures a lasting solution to the differences; They declare: 1. Their condemnation of the breakdown of democratic order in Venezuela. 2. Their decision not to recognize the National Constituent Assembly, nor the acts emanating from it, due to its illegitimate nature. 3. Their full support and solidarity with the National Assembly, democratically elected. 4. Legal acts that according to the Constitution require authorization from the National Assembly, will only be recognized when said Assembly has approved them. 5. Their energetic rejection of violence and any option that involves the use of force. 6. Their support and solidarity with the Attorney General and the members of the Public Ministry of Venezuela and demand the application of the precautionary measures issued by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. 7. Their condemnation of the systematic violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, of violence, repression and political persecution, the existence of political prisoners and the lack of free elections under independent international observation. 8. That Venezuela does not comply with the requirements or obligations of the members of the Human Rights Council of the United Nations. 9. Their serious concern about the humanitarian crisis facing the country and his condemnation of the government for not allowing the entry of food and medicine in support of the Venezuelan people. 10. Their decision to continue the application of the Inter-American Democratic Charter to Venezuela. 11. Their support for the decision of MERCOSUR to suspend Venezuela in application of the Ushuaia Protocol on Democratic Commitment. 12. Their decision not to support any Venezuelan candidacy in regional and international mechanisms and organizations. 13. Their call to stop the transfer of arms to Venezuela in light of articles 6 and 7 of the Arms Trade Treaty. 14. That, taking into account the current conditions, they will request the Pro Tempore Presidency of CELAC and the European Union, the postponement of the CELAC-EU Summit scheduled for October 2017. 15. Their commitment to keep track of the situation in Venezuela, at the level of Foreign Ministers, until the full restoration of democracy in that country, and to meet no later than the next session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, an opportunity in which may be added other countries. 16. Their willingness to urgently support, within the framework of respect for Venezuelan sovereignty, any effort of credible negotiation and good faith, which has the consensus of the parties and is aimed at peacefully achieving the restoration of democracy in the country.', 'body': '@alakyr1 cos kiepsko wiedza bo popieraja Guido a nie Maduro... spojrz na punkty 2 - NCA jest niekonstytucyjnym tworem powolanym przez Maduro, punkt NA jesl legalnie wybranym parlamentem ktorego przewodniczacym jest Guido (i legalnosci tych wyborow nikt nie kwestionowal), punkt 4, punkty 6 to 9... Declaration of Lima Joint Declaration 007 - 17 The Foreign Ministers and Representatives of Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay and Peru, meeting in the city of Lima, on 8 August 2017, to address the critical situation in Venezuela and explore ways to contribute to the restoration of democracy in that country through a peaceful and negotiated solution; Encouraged by the spirit of solidarity that characterizes the region and the conviction that negotiation, with full respect for the norms of international law and the principle of nonintervention, does not violate human rights and democracy, and is the only tool that ensures a lasting solution to the differences; They declare: 1. Their condemnation of the breakdown of democratic order in Venezuela. 2. Their decision not to recognize the National Constituent Assembly, nor the acts emanating from it, due to its illegitimate nature. 3. Their full support and solidarity with the National Assembly, democratically elected. 4. Legal acts that according to the Constitution require authorization from the National Assembly, will only be recognized when said Assembly has approved them. 5. Their energetic rejection of violence and any option that involves the use of force. 6. Their support and solidarity with the Attorney General and the members of the Public Ministry of Venezuela and demand the application of the precautionary measures issued by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. 7. Their condemnation of the systematic violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, of violence, repression and political persecution, the existence of political prisoners and the lack of free elections under independent international observation. 8. That Venezuela does not comply with the requirements or obligations of the members of the Human Rights Council of the United Nations. 9. Their serious concern about the humanitarian crisis facing the country and his condemnation of the government for not allowing the entry of food and medicine in support of the Venezuelan people. 10. Their decision to continue the application of the Inter-American Democratic Charter to Venezuela. 11. Their support for the decision of MERCOSUR to suspend Venezuela in application of the Ushuaia Protocol on Democratic Commitment. 12. Their decision not to support any Venezuelan candidacy in regional and international mechanisms and organizations. 13. Their call to stop the transfer of arms to Venezuela in light of articles 6 and 7 of the Arms Trade Treaty. 14. That, taking into account the current conditions, they will request the Pro Tempore Presidency of CELAC and the European Union, the postponement of the CELAC-EU Summit scheduled for October 2017. 15. Their commitment to keep track of the situation in Venezuela, at the level of Foreign Ministers, until the full restoration of democracy in that country, and to meet no later than the next session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, an opportunity in which may be added other countries. 16. Their willingness to urgently support, within the framework of respect for Venezuelan sovereignty, any effort of credible negotiation and good faith, which has the consensus of the parties and is aimed at peacefully achieving the restoration of democracy in the country.', 'upvotes': '1', 'downvotes': '0', 'suspicious': False}]}, {'main_comment': {'id': '101358793', 'author': 'bajobongo.online', 'date': '01.03.2019, 10:02', 'body': 'Wenezuela nie jest krajem demokratycznym. Jak odda kontrolę nad mediami oraz tanio sprzeda żłoza ropy to będzie.Może nawet zostać przyjacielem USA jak Arabia Saudyjska - Wielki przyjaciel amerykańskich demokratów.', 'upvotes': '2', 'downvotes': '0', 'suspicious': False}, 'sub_comments': []}, {'main_comment': {'id': '101358338', 'author': 'Otrovez', 'date': '01.03.2019, 08:12', 'body': 'Kolejny stronniczy i skrajnie nierzetelny paszkwil.', 'upvotes': '2', 'downvotes': '0', 'suspicious': False}, 'sub_comments': []}]}, 'timestamp': 1562650898.89008}}